---
theme: night
---

## Web Audio Introduction

##### HS23/24 - HKB - Laurens Inauen

---

First **adminstrative** info and such.

We will take a look at the web, the browser and audio from different angles.

**high-level, technical**: what is a browser? what is a client? what is a server? how do they interact with each other? why is the browser an attractive platform for art? what are its pros and cons? how does it compare to other alternatives?

**low-level, technical**: what is html, css, javascript? how can the browser make sound? what is the Web Audio API (also, what is an API)? what other APIs are there? what are its limitations?

We will quickly go over the most important tools for us as Web Developers e.g. git, npm, code editor, mdn web docs.

---

### Lessons

|Date|Time|
|---|---|
|20.09.2023|13:00 - 16:00|
|04.10.2023|14:00 - 16:00|
|18.10.2023|13:00 - 15:00|
|01.11.2023|13:00 - 15:00|
|22.11.2023|13:00 - 15:00|
|06.12.2023|13:00 - 15:00|
|20.12.2023|13:00 - 15:00|

---

### Course Materials

%% TODO add repository link %%

course materials are written in [Markdown](https://commonmark.org/help/)

to get the most out of the course materials i recommend you use [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md/)

---

### About Me

- artist
  - BA sound arts
  - MA contemporary arts practice
  - algorithmic / generative music
  - web audio
  - rt60extended
- developer
  - BSc computer science
  - web developer

---

### About You

Please introduce yourself and tell the class:
- what kind of sound art you make
- what technology you usually use (i.e. Ableton, Max/MSP, PureData, etc.)
- any experience with web development
- what you hope to get out of this course

---

### Goal

creating web-based audio experiences.

---

### Why?

- bring our (generative) art onto listeners devices
  - web audio is the most accessible way for both artists and listeners
- create truly interactive pieces and experiences
- explore a (relatively) new and important medium artistically
- be part of a young, enthusiastic and small community of artists
- learn to code
- make more meaningful statements about technology because you know what you're talking about

---

### Preconditions

- toolchain, development environment
- knowledge of browser technologies
- knowledge of html, css, javascript
- knowledge of certain libraries

---

### Goals For Today

- getting an overview over all the moving parts
- installing the necessary dependencies/software
- creating our first website :)

---

### Canvas: Overview

---

### Background Knowledge

#### How The Web Works

What is...
- the internet?
- a server?
- a client?
- the web?
- the browser?
---

### Browser
